In this video I'll break down the differences between NFL version 3 and NTFS version 4 it out one.
And as of these fear of six and FS version for it one is now supported for our NFL status stores.
So NFL for now one comes with some additional functionality that version 3 does not include.
That being said there are also some limitations that are specific to NFL version for not one that you
need to be aware of as well.
Right.
So number one with NFL version 3 storage traffic is strictly unencrypted.
So we can only use FS on networks that we 100 percent trust the other limiting factor is as you can
see here there is only one IP address on our network attached storage device.
So because of that the ESX host uses only one TCAP connection for I O to the FS storage device are only
a single IP address can be used for the NFA server per data store and this can make a load balancing
difficult because we typically use IP hash for load balancing this type of traffic.
If we have the same IP for all of our traffic IP hashes Im going to do us any good.
And the final limitation actually not really a limitation but more of our requirement is that with edifies
version 3 the ESX host requires a root access to the server and this can become a little bit of an issue
because many fast devices come with something called the root squash enabled which basically disallows
remote attempts to connect to it as root.
So that's just something to bear in mind with version 3 is that the ESX host must have root level access
to the FS server.
Ok so fast forward to his version for not one and some things have changed.
Number one there is improved security because the headers of all of our and FS traffic are encrypted
and signed and so we're not actually encrypting all of the storage traffic but we're encrypting all
of the headers.
So we have an improved level of security there.
Also you'll notice a second IP address just appeared on my network attached storage device multipath
thing is now supported using multiple IP addresses.
And also we no longer need root level access with NFL version 4.1.
The big downside version for that one is VHI is not supported.
So if you're not familiar with VHI it's the VSE for API for Array integration.
And what it allows you to do is carry out certain vse for type functions and NTFS version 3.
Right.
Things like creating Ficke provisioned disks rely on VHI
so and as a result for not one we have Kerberos support included this is what actually removes the need
for root level access.
But what you need to do is make sure that all of your hosts use a matching set of credentials and to
do this you'll utilize an active directory domain controller and key distribution center.
One final item that I want to point out if you're currently using an FS version 3 and you want to create.
I want to cut over two and a version for it out one you can not connect from one host using NFC version
3 and another host using FS version for it out one to the same data store.
As a matter of fact if you try to do that you can potentially corrupt the contents of that data store.
So the best way to kind of make this transition to N.F. has for not one is to do it as a whole or you
don't want half of your hosts on three and half of your hosts on 4.1.
This is a this is kind of like a hard cut over.
You want to get everything up to 4.1 simultaneously.
That way there is no disparity between your ESX I hosts.